---
layout: default
title: The Uber-Associativeness of the Human Brain
---
## The Uber-Associativeness of the Human Brain
Meditating will show you that your brain is way faster and deeper in its associative power than you realized. By "faster and deeping in its associative power" I mean that any one thought usually triggers an **unpredictable, but logical,** association with another thought very quickly, which in turn triggers another association, and so forth, many times over, very quickly. For example, I was just meditating and was scanning down my body, checking in with each of my body parts, starting at my head. As I got to my torso, I thought about my back muscles which will be sore tomorrow since I put them through a good workout at the gym today, which made me think of how I hope I will be looking good for my girlfriend when she comes home from her vacation next week, which made me think of how awesome it is that I was able to coordinate with my boss that I can work from home next week instead of having to spend vacation days, which made me think about whether I should do the same for my upcoming trip to New York, which made me think about working in the Amazon office in New York and what that might be like. This all happened over the course of five to ten seconds. So just to recap, by checking in with the physical state of my back muscles, I triggered a sense of wonder about what the Amazon offices in New York are like, within ten seconds.

I feel like this uber-associativeness is generally under-accounted for. We tend to cling way too dearly to a logical, sensible flow in our analysis of strategies -- political, economic, business, marketing, social, you name it. This is why events in the world continue to surprise us, no matter how advanced our knowledge has become. If I myself can't predict that I will think about the Amazon offices in New York becuase of a consideration of my back muscles, for sure nobody else could. And each individual is unique in the associative chain they will follow. Of course, general directions at the collective level can be predicted with some degree of accuracy, but this uber-associativeness means that our lives could go in many different directions, and the decisions we make, based off of a random set of stimuli that come into our brain and trigger multiple simultaneous associative chains, are wholly unpredictable. This is what makes life fun.
